# Mu3e Trigger

This repository contains experimental code for training various machine learning models to be used in the Mu3e experiment trigger system.

## Features
- Data preprocessing scripts to convert root data generated by the Mu3e simulation into numpy arrays.
- Implementation of various machine learning models including:
  - Graph Neural Networks (GNNs)
  - Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs)
  - Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs)
  - Transformers
- Training and evaluation scripts for each model type.
- Utilities for data loading, batching, and augmentation.
- Visualization tools for model performance and data analysis.

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+
- PyTorch
- NumPy
- Pandas
- Matplotlib
- Scikit-learn
- Additional libraries as specified in the `requirements.txt` file.

## Installation
1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https:://github.com/simi216/mu3e_trigger.git
2. Navigate to the project directory:
   ```bash
   cd mu3e_trigger
3. Install the required packages:
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
    or use the provided script to install requirements including PyTorch Geometric:
    ```bash
    bash install_requirements.sh
    ```
## Usage
- Data Preparation:
  - Use the scripts in the `src/data_preparation` directory to preprocess raw data into numpy format.
- Feature Plotting:
   - Use the notebooks in the `notebooks_feature_plotting` directory for visualizing and analyzing data features.
- Model Training:
   -Use the notebooks in the `notebooks_supervised` or `notebooks_unsupervised`  directory to train and evaluate different machine learning models.
   -To verify models on toy data, use the notebooks in the `notebooks_verification` directory.
   -For experimental setups, refer to the `notebooks_experimental` directory.